# Influxer
A C# console application to parse log files (currently only Windows Perfmon format) and push data to Influx for later visualization. It uses [InfluxDB.Client.Net](https://github.com/AdysTech/InfluxDB.Client.Net) to interact with Influx.

[InfluxDB][1] is a very nice time series database, and is supported by many data visualizers (mainly [grafana][2]). But if you have other tools which are producing the data in csv format (mainly PerfMon in windows, or enterprise reporting tools) which are not designed for Influx era, you will have to develop own tools to pull from one tool and to push to other.

Meet Influxer, a small C# console application, which will take any generic csv file or standard PerfMon csv log, and upload it to any Influx instance.

<<<<<<< HEAD
        Valid switches are
    -influx <url>       :   Influx DB Url
    -dbName <name>      :   Influx DB Name (will be created if not exists)
    -uname <username>   :   Influx DB User name
    -pass <password>    :   Influx DB Password
    -tags <tags>        :   Tags to be passed with every value, key value pairs, space will be converted to _
    -input <filename>   :   Input File CSV generated by PerfMon
    -seperator <char>   :   Column Separators default is ,
    -timeformat <format>:   Time format used by PerfMon (default MM/dd/yyyy hh:mm:ss.fff)
    -format <format>    :   CSV File format PerfMon(default) and Generic are supported. For generic TableName is required
    -table <table name> :   Influx Table name needed for generic format only
    -filter <filter>    :   supported:measurement, field, columns.
    -columns <columns>  :   Comma separated list of columns from input files
    -filter-measurement or field is to restrict the input file to only measurements or fields that already present in the database
    -filter-columns is to restrict to only few columns from the input irrespective of existing data in database
    -columns will be ignored in other cases. Replace any inline commas in columns names with a space!
=======
    Supported command line arguments
    --help /? or /help  shows this help text
    
    
    /config to print possible config section, pipe it to a file to edit and reuse the config
    
    -config <configuration file path> to load the config file.
    
    Any configuration entries can be overridden by command line switches shown below
    
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Required flags
    -input <file name>                                      Input file name
    -format <format>                                        Input file format. Supported: Perfmon, Generic                                                           Default:Perfmon
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    InfluxDB related flags
    -influx <Url>                                           Influx DB Url including port                                                                             Default:localhost:8083
    -dbName <name>                                          Influx database Name, will be created if not present                                                     Default:InfluxerDB
    -uname <username>                                       User name for InfluxDB
    -pass <password>                                        Password for InfluxDB
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Perfmon file format related flags
    -seperator <char>                                       Charecter seperating Columns                                                                             Default:,
    -TimeFormat <format>                                    Time format used in input files                                                                          Default:MM/dd/yyyy hh:mm:ss.fff
    -Precision <precision>                                  Supported:Hours<1>,Minutes<2>,Seconds<3>,MilliSeconds<4>,MicroSeconds<5>,NanoSeconds<6>                  Default:Seconds
    -filter <filter>                                        Filter input data file, Supported:Measurement (import preexisting measurements), Field (import preexisting fields), Columns (import specified columns)
    ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Generic delimited file format related flags
    -table <table name>                                     Measurement name in InfluxDB                                                                             Default:InfluxerData
    -utcoffset <No of Minutes>                              Offset in minutes to UTC, each line in input will be adjusted to arrive time in UTC
    -seperator <char>                                       Charecter seperating Columns                                                                             Default:,
    -TimeFormat <format>                                    Time format used in input files                                                                          Default:MM/dd/yyyy hh:mm:ss.fff
    -Precision <precision>                                  Supported:Hours<1>,Minutes<2>,Seconds<3>,MilliSeconds<4>,MicroSeconds<5>,NanoSeconds<6>                  Default:Seconds
    -filter <filter>                                        Filter input data file, Supported:Measurement (import preexisting measurements), Field (import preexisting fields), Columns (import specified columns)

>>>>>>> mvadu-patch-1

In case of Perfmon logs, the measurements are created at a CounterObject level, and each counters in those objects become fields. The Host name is added as tag. 

In case of generic CSV, first column should have a timestamp, and each column will be loaded as a field in the measurement (similar to tables in SQL world) passed as table name.

  [1]: https://github.com/influxdb/influxdb
  [2]: https://github.com/grafana/grafana
